prep release: v1.23.0 (#3390)
apollographql/router: CHANGELOG.md

By [@dbanty](https://github.com/dbanty) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3254

## Experimental support for GraphQL validation in Rust

We are experimenting with a new GraphQL validation implementation written in Rust. The legacy implementation is part of the JavaScript query planner. This is part of a project to remove JavaScript from the Router to improve performance and memory behavior.

To opt in to the new validation implementation, set:

```yaml {4,8} title="router.yaml"
experimental_graphql_validation_mode: new
```

Or use `both` to run the implementations side by side and log a warning if there is a difference in results:

```yaml {4,8} title="router.yaml"
experimental_graphql_validation_mode: both
```

This is an experimental option while we are still finding edge cases in the new implementation, but it will become the default in the future.

By [@goto-bus-stop](https://github.com/goto-bus-stop) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3134

### Add environment variable access to rhai ([Issue #1744](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/1744))

> This introduces support for a new env module. There's no need to import it since it is already imported by the router Rhai engine. The `env` module contains one function:
> 
> ```
> fn get(key) -> value
> ```
> 
> `key` is expected to be a String and `value` is a String. The function may fail, so exceptions should be handled. Usage is fully documented in the router docs.
> 
> This example Rhai script illustrates how to use it:
> 
> ```
>     try {
>         print(`LANG: `);
>     } catch(err) {
>         print(`exception: `);
>     }
> ```
> 
> 

Author: ```suggestion
This introduces support for accessing environment variable within Rhai. The new `env` module contains one function and is imported by default:
```
fn get(key) -> value
```

`key` is expected to be a String and `value` is a String. The function may fail, so exceptions should be handled. Usage is fully documented in the router docs.

This example Rhai script illustrates how to use it:

```
    try {
        print(`LANG: ` + env("LANG"));
    } catch(err) {
        print(`exception: ` + err);
    }
```

```

By [@garypen](https://github.com/garypen) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3240

### Add support for getting request method in Rhai ([Issue #2467](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/2467))

> It may be useful to know the method of a request in your Rhai script.
> 
> This adds support for getting the method and performing comparisons against String representations.

Author: ```suggestion
This adds support for getting the HTTP method of requests in Rhai.
```

```
fn process_request(request) {
    if request.method == "OPTIONS"  {
        request.headers["x-custom-header"] = "value"
    }
}
```

> 
> Note: You may not modify the method.

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Add additional build functionality to the diy build script ([Issue #3303](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/3303))

The diy build script is useful for ad-hoc image creation during testing or for building your own images based on a router repo. This set of enhancements makes it possible to

 - build docker images from arbitrary (nightly) builds (-a)
 - build an amd64 docker image on an arm64 machine (or vice versa) (-m)
 - change the name of the image from the default 'router' (-n)

Note: the build machine image architecture is used if the -m flag is not supplied.

By [@garypen](https://github.com/garypen) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3304

## 🐛 Fixes

### Bring root span name in line with otel semantic conventions. ([Issue #3229](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/3229))

Root span name has changed from `request` to `<graphql.operation.kind> <graphql.operation.name>`

[Open Telemetry graphql semantic conventions](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/trace/semantic_conventions/instrumentation/graphql/) specify that the root span name must match the operation kind and name. 

> Many tracing providers don't have good support for filtering traces via attribute, so this change will bring significant usability enhancements to the tracing experience.

Author: ```suggestion
Many tracing providers don't have good support for filtering traces via attribute, so changing this significantly enhances the tracing experience.
```

By [@o0Ignition0o](https://github.com/o0Ignition0o) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3128

### fix(subscription): take the callback url path from the configuration ([Issue #3361](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/3361))

Previously when you specified the `subscription.mode.callback.path` it was not used, we had an hardcoded value set to `/callback`. It's now using the specified path in the configuration

By [@bnjjj](https://github.com/bnjjj) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3366

### Preserve all shutdown receivers across reloads ([Issue #3139](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/3139))

Preserve a vec of all channels that we create and process all of them during shutdown. This will avoid scenarios such as:

- some requests are in flight
- the router reloads (new schema, etc)
- the router gets a shutdown signal

> - since the shutdown channel for the older configuration is not kept, the router closes immediately without waiting for the initial connections to stop

Author: ```suggestion
```

By [@garypen](https://github.com/garypen) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3311

### Enable serde_json float_roundtrip feature ([Issue #2951](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/2951))

> This feature is explicitly designed to:
> 
> """
> Use sufficient precision when parsing fixed precision floats from JSON to ensure that they maintain accuracy when round-tripped through JSON. This comes at an approximately 2x performance cost for parsing floats compared to the default best-effort precision.
> """
> 
> Despite the performance impact for floats, we need the fix in order to prevent float values losing precision when processed by the router.

Author: ```suggestion
The Router now preserves JSON floating point numbers exactly as they are received by enabling the `serde_json` `float_roudtrip` feature:

"""
Use sufficient precision when parsing fixed precision floats from JSON to ensure that they maintain accuracy when round-tripped through JSON. This comes at an approximately 2x performance cost for parsing floats compared to the default best-effort precision.
"""
```

By [@garypen](https://github.com/garypen) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3338

> ### Fix @defer inside an aliased field ([Issue #3263](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/3263))
> 
> This refactors [PR #3298](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3298/) to prepare deferred subselections without serializing them to GraphQL syntax just to re-parse them. This removes code that did not correctly handle some interactions of `@defer` with aliases.
> 
> By [@SimonSapin](https://github.com/SimonSapin) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3346
> 
> ### Fix deferred response formatting when filtering queries ([PR #3298](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3298), [PR #3339](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3339))
> 
> Filtering queries requires two levels of response formatting, and its implementation shone light on issues with deferred responses. The response formatting side needs to recognize which deferred fragment generated it, and the deferred response shapes can change depending on request variables, due to the `@defer` directive's `if` argument. So far the response formatting code was not handling those variables.
> For now, this is solved by generating the response shapes for primary and deferred responses, for each combination of the variables used in `@defer` applications, limited to 32 unique variables. There will be follow up work with another approach that removes this limitation, but it will require a lot of deep changes in response formatting, so it will have to land a bit later.
> 
> By [@Geal](https://github.com/Geal) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3298 and https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3339

Author: ```suggestion
### Fix deferred response formatting when filtering queries ([PR #3298](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3298), [Issue #3263](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/3263), [PR #3339](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3339))

Filtering queries requires two levels of response formatting, and its implementation shone light on issues with deferred responses. Response formatting needs to recognize which deferred fragment generated it, and that the deferred response shapes can change depending on request variables, due to the `@defer` directive's `if` argument.

For now, this is solved by generating the response shapes for primary and deferred responses, for each combination of the variables used in `@defer` applications, limited to 32 unique variables. There will be follow up work with another approach that removes this limitation.

By [@Geal](https://github.com/Geal) and [@SimonSapin](https://github.com/SimonSapin) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3298, https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/3263 and https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3339
```

### Otel Ensure that service name is correctly picked up from env and resources ([Issue #3215](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/3215))

`OTEL_SERVICE_NAME` env and `service.name` resource are now correctly used when creating tracing exporters.

By [@BrynCooke](https://github.com/BrynCooke) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3307

## 🛠 Maintenance

> ### use a Drop guard to track active requests ([PR #3343](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3343))

Author: ```suggestion
### Use a Drop guard to track active requests ([PR #3343](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3343))
```

> manually tracking active requests is error prone because we might return early without decrementing the active requests. To make sure this is done properly, `enter_active_request` now returns a guard struct, that will decrement the count on drop

Author: ```suggestion
Manually tracking active requests is error prone because we might return early without decrementing the active requests. To make sure this is done properly, `enter_active_request` now returns a guard struct, that will decrement the count on drop
```

By [@Geal](https://github.com/Geal) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3343

### Merge tests to reduce linking time ([PR #3272](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3272))

We build multiple test executables to perform short tests and each of them needs to link an entire router. By merging them in larger files, we can reduce the time spent in CI

By [@Geal](https://github.com/Geal) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3272

### Always instanciate the traffic shaping plugin ([Issue #3327](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/3327))

> The traffic_shaping plugin is now always part of the plugins list and is always active, with default configuration.

Author: ```suggestion
The `traffic_shaping` plugin is now always part of the plugins list and is always active, with default configuration.
```

By [@Geal](https://github.com/Geal) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3330

> ### refactor ExecutionService ([PR #3344](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3344))

Author: ```suggestion
### Refactor ExecutionService ([PR #3344](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3344))
```

> The ExecutionService implementation was too complex. This splits it into multiple methods for more readability

Author: ```suggestion
Split `ExecutionService` implementation into multiple methods for readability.
```

By [@Geal](https://github.com/Geal) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3344

### Refactor router service ([PR #3326](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3326))

> No semantic changes here, this moves code around for easier readability and maintainability

Author: ```suggestion
Refactor code around for easier readability and maintainability
```

By [@Geal](https://github.com/Geal) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3326

### Fix missing origin repository in release checklist

Fixes a missing --repo parameter at Step 28 of the release checklist, which would fail to edit the release notes if several upstreams are set on your machine.

By [@o0Ignition0o](https://github.com/o0Ignition0o) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/TBD

### chore: updates `altool` to `notarytool` for MacOS codesigning ([Issue #3275](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/3275))

By [@EverlastingBugstopper](https://github.com/EverlastingBugstopper) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3334

## 📚 Documentation

> ### Add a few security-related warnings to JWT auth docs ([PR #3299](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3299))

Author: ```suggestion
### Add security-related warnings to JWT auth docs ([PR #3299](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3299))
```

There are a couple potential security pitfalls when leveraging the router for JWT authentication. These are now documented in [the relevant section of the docs](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/router/configuration/authn-jwt). If you are currently using JWT authentication in the router, be sure to [secure your subgraphs](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/federation/building-supergraphs/subgraphs-overview#securing-your-subgraphs) and [use care when propagating headers](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/router/configuration/authn-jwt#example-forwarding-claims-to-subgraphs). 

By [@dbanty](https://github.com/dbanty) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3299

### Update example for claim forwarding ([Issue #3224](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/3224))

> The JWT claim example that we had in our docs was insecure as it iterated over the list of claims and set them as headers.

Author: ```suggestion
The JWT claim example in our docs was insecure as it iterated over the list of claims and set them as headers.
```

A malicious user could have provided a valid JWT that was missing claims and then set those claims as headers.
This would only have affected users who had configured their routers to forward all headers from the client to subgraphs.

The documentation has been updated to explicitly list the claims that are forwarded to the subgraph.
In addition, a new example has been added that uses extensions to forward claims.

By [@BrynCooke](https://github.com/BrynCooke) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3319

### Document plugin ordering ([Issue #3207](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/3207))

> Requests go through user Rust plugins in the same order as those plugins are configured in
> the Router’s YAML configuration file, and responses in reverse order.
> This is now documented behavior that users can rely on, with new tests to help maintain it.

Author: ```suggestion
Rust plugins are applied in the same order as they are configured in the Router’s YAML configuration file.
This is now documented behavior that users can rely on, with new tests to help maintain it.
```

Additionally, some Router features happen to use the plugin mechanism internally.
Those now all have a fixed ordering, whereas previous Router versions would use a mixture
of fixed order for some internal plugins and configuration file order for the rest.

By [@SimonSapin](https://github.com/SimonSapin) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3321

### Improve documentation for `Rhai` globals ([Issue #2671](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/2671))

> The router's `Rhai` interface can simulate closures: https://rhai.rs/book/language/fn-closure.html

Author: ```suggestion
The Router's `Rhai` interface can simulate closures: https://rhai.rs/book/language/fn-closure.html
```

However, and this is an important restriction:

"
The [anonymous function](https://rhai.rs/book/language/fn-anon.html) syntax, however, automatically captures [variables](https://rhai.rs/book/language/variables.html) that are not defined within the current scope, but are defined in the external scope – i.e. the scope where the [anonymous function](https://rhai.rs/book/language/fn-anon.html) is created. "

Thus it's not possible for a `Rhai` closure to make reference to a global variable.

> This hasn't previously been an issue, but we've now added support for referencing global variables, one at the moment `Router`, and so this kind of thing might be attempted:

Author: ```suggestion
This hasn't previously been an issue, but we've now added support for referencing global variables, one at the moment `Router`, for example:
```

```sh
fn supergraph_service(service){
    let f = |request| {
        let v = Router.APOLLO_SDL;
        print(v);
    };
    service.map_request(f);
}
```

> That won't work and you'll get an error something like: `service callback failed: Variable not found: Router (line 4, position 17)`

Author: ```suggestion
This won't work and you'll get an error something like: `service callback failed: Variable not found: Router (line 4, position 17)`
```

This project adheres to [Semantic Versioning v2.0.0](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

# [1.23.0] - 2023-07-07

## 🚀 Features

### Add `--listen` to CLI args ([PR #3296](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3296))

Adds `--listen` to CLI args, which allows the user to specify the address to listen on.
It can also be set via environment variable `APOLLO_ROUTER_LISTEN_ADDRESS`.

```bash
router --listen 0.0.0.0:4001
```

By [@ptondereau](https://github.com/ptondereau) and [@BrynCooke](https://github.com/BrynCooke) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3296

### Move operation limits and parser limits to General Availability ([PR #3356](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3356))

[Operation Limits](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/router/configuration/operation-limits) (a GraphOS Enterprise feature) and [parser limits](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/router/configuration/overview/#parser-based-limits) are now moving to General Availability, from Preview where they have been since Apollo Router 1.17.

For more information about launch stages, please see the documentation here: https://www.apollographql.com/docs/resources/product-launch-stages/

> In addition to removing the `preview_` prefix, the configuration section has been renamed to just `limits` to encapsulate operation, parser and request limits. ([The request size limit](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/router/configuration/overview/#request-limits) is still [experimental](https://github.com/apollographql/router/discussions/3220).) Existing configuration files will keep working as before, only with a warning. To fix that warning, rename the configuration section like so:

Author: ```suggestion
In addition to removing the `preview_` prefix, the configuration section has been renamed to just `limits` to encapsulate operation, parser and request limits. ([The request size limit](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/router/configuration/overview/#request-limits) is still [experimental](https://github.com/apollographql/router/discussions/3220).) Existing configuration files will keep working as before, but with a warning output to the logs. To fix that warning, rename the configuration section like so:
```

```diff
-preview_operation_limits:
+limits:
   max_depth: 100
   max_height: 200
   max_aliases: 30
   max_root_fields: 20
```

By [@SimonSapin](https://github.com/SimonSapin) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3356

### Add support for readiness/liveness checks ([Issue #3233](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/3233))

> The router is a complex beast and it's not entirely straightforward to determine if a router is live/ready.
> 
> From a kubernetes point of view, a service is:
> 
>  - live [if it isn't deadlocked](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/llarsson_betterdevopsonkubernetes-devops-devsecops-activity-7018587202121076736-LRxE)
>  - ready if it is able to start accepting traffic
> 
> (For more details: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-startup-probes/)
> 
> Our current health check isn't actually doing either of these things. It's returning a payload which indicates if the router is "healthy" or not and it's always returning "UP" (hard-coded). As long as it is serving traffic it appears "healthy".
> 
> To address this we need:
> 
> 1. A mechanism within the router to define whether it is ready or live.
> 2. A new interface whereby an interested party may determine if the router is ready or live.
> 
> Both of these questions are significantly complicated by the fact that the router is architected to maintain connectivity in the face of changing configuration, schemas, etc... Multiple interested parties may be operating against the same router with different states (via different connections) and thus may, in theory, get different answers. However, I'm working on the assumption that, for k8s control purposes, a client, will only be interested in the current (latest) state of the router, so that's what we'll track.
> 
> ---
> 
> 1. How do we know if the router is ready or live?
> 
> Ready
> 
>  - Is in state Running
>  - Is `Live`
> 
> Live
>  - Is not in state Errored
>  - Health check enabled and responding
> 
> 2. Extending our existing health interface
> 
> If we add support for query parameters named "ready" and "live" to our existing health endpoint, then we can provide a backwards compatible interface which leverages the existing "/health" endpoint. We support both POST and GET for maximum compatibility.
> 
> Sample queries:
> 
> ```
> curl -XPOST "http://localhost:8088/health?ready" OR curl  "http://localhost:8088/health?ready"
> 
> curl -XPOST "http://localhost:8088/health?live" OR curl "http://localhost:8088/health?live"
> ```
> 
> To keep the implementation simple, you may only query for one at a time (which I think is fine).

Author: ```suggestion
Kubernetes lifecycle interop has been improved by implementing liveliness and readiness checks.

Kubernetes considers a service is:

 - live - [if it isn't deadlocked](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/llarsson_betterdevopsonkubernetes-devops-devsecops-activity-7018587202121076736-LRxE)
 - ready - if it is able to start accepting traffic

(For more details: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-startup-probes/)

The existing health check didn't surface this information. Instead, it returns a payload which indicates if the router is "healthy" or not and it's always returning "UP" (hard-coded).

The router health check now exposes this information based in the following rules:
* Live
 - Is not in state Errored
 - Health check enabled and responding
* Ready
 - Is running and accepting requests.
 - Is `Live`

To maintain backwards compatibility; query parameters named "ready" and "live" have been added to our existing health endpoint. Both POST and GET are supported.

Sample queries:

```
curl -XPOST "http://localhost:8088/health?ready" OR curl  "http://localhost:8088/health?ready"

curl -XPOST "http://localhost:8088/health?live" OR curl "http://localhost:8088/health?live"
```

```

By [@garypen](https://github.com/garypen) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3276

### Include path to Rhai script in syntax error messages

> Syntax errors in the main Rhai script will now include the path to the script in the error message. This should make it more obvious where the error originates.

Author: ```suggestion
Syntax errors in the main Rhai script will now include the path to the script in the error message.
```

By [@dbanty](https://github.com/dbanty) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3254

## Experimental support for GraphQL validation in Rust

We are experimenting with a new GraphQL validation implementation written in Rust. The legacy implementation is part of the JavaScript query planner. This is part of a project to remove JavaScript from the Router to improve performance and memory behavior.

To opt in to the new validation implementation, set:

```yaml {4,8} title="router.yaml"
experimental_graphql_validation_mode: new
```

Or use `both` to run the implementations side by side and log a warning if there is a difference in results:

```yaml {4,8} title="router.yaml"
experimental_graphql_validation_mode: both
```

> This is an experimental option while we are still finding edge cases in the new implementation, but it will become the default in the future.

Author: ```suggestion
This is an experimental option while we are still finding edge cases in the new implementation, and will be removed once we have confidence that parity has been achieved.
```

By [@goto-bus-stop](https://github.com/goto-bus-stop) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3134

### Add environment variable access to rhai ([Issue #1744](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/1744))

This introduces support for a new env module. There's no need to import it since it is already imported by the router Rhai engine. The `env` module contains one function:

```
fn get(key) -> value
```

`key` is expected to be a String and `value` is a String. The function may fail, so exceptions should be handled. Usage is fully documented in the router docs.

This example Rhai script illustrates how to use it:

```
    try {
        print(`LANG: `);
    } catch(err) {
        print(`exception: `);
    }
```

> fixes: #1744

Author: ```suggestion

```

 - build an amd64 docker image on an arm64 machine (or vice versa) (-m)
 - change the name of the image from the default 'router' (-n)

Note: the build machine image architecture is used if the -m flag is not supplied.

By [@garypen](https://github.com/garypen) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3304

## 🐛 Fixes

### Bring root span name in line with otel semantic conventions. ([Issue #3229](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/3229))

Root span name has changed from `request` to `<graphql.operation.kind> <graphql.operation.name>`

[Open Telemetry graphql semantic conventions](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/trace/semantic_conventions/instrumentation/graphql/) specify that the root span name must match the operation kind and name. 

Many tracing providers don't have good support for filtering traces via attribute, so this change will bring significant usability enhancements to the tracing experience.

By [@BrynCooke](https://github.com/BrynCooke) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3364

### An APQ query with a mismatched hash will error as HTTP 400 ([Issue #2948](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/2948))

> We now model the both the behavior of the Gateway and the intended behavior of [the implementation](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/performance/apq/).  Even if our previous behavior was still acceptable, any other behavior is a misconfiguration of a client and should be prevented early.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We now have the same behavior in the Gateway and [the Router implementation](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/performance/apq/).  Even if our previous behavior was still acceptable, any other behavior is a misconfiguration of a client and should be prevented early.
```

By [@o0Ignition0o](https://github.com/o0Ignition0o) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3128

### fix(subscription): take the callback url path from the configuration ([Issue #3361](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/3361))

Previously when you specified the `subscription.mode.callback.path` it was not used, we had an hardcoded value set to `/callback`. It's now using the specified path in the configuration

By [@bnjjj](https://github.com/bnjjj) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3366

### Preserve all shutdown receivers across reloads ([Issue #3139](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/3139))

> Preserve a vec of all channels that we create and process all of them during shutdown. This will avoid scenarios such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We keep a list of all currently in use router configurations and active requests and process all of them during shutdown. This will avoid scenarios such as:
```

- some requests are in flight
- the router reloads (new schema, etc)
- the router gets a shutdown signal
- since the shutdown channel for the older configuration is not kept, the router closes immediately without waiting for the initial connections to stop

By [@garypen](https://github.com/garypen) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3311

### Enable serde_json float_roundtrip feature ([Issue #2951](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/2951))

This feature is explicitly designed to:

"""
Use sufficient precision when parsing fixed precision floats from JSON to ensure that they maintain accuracy when round-tripped through JSON. This comes at an approximately 2x performance cost for parsing floats compared to the default best-effort precision.
"""

Despite the performance impact for floats, we need the fix in order to prevent float values losing precision when processed by the router.

By [@garypen](https://github.com/garypen) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/3338

> ### Fix @defer inside an aliased field ([Issue #3263](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/3263))

Reviewer: maybe merge that entry with #3298 and #3339

Author: Agreed
